Okay,
in this demonstration we're going to tour the Microsoft
learning site so you can get your grounding.
Now I recommended you looking at my MVA class on
preparing for Microsoft certification.
That advice still stands.
However, you should have the site microsoft.
com/learning bookmarked.
This takes you to this site,
and if it doesn't look exactly the way that it appears on my recorded screen,
don't worry about it, Microsoft, like most big businesses,
periodically refreshes their website.
The main structure, though,
of the learning toolbar is pretty consistent over time.
I want to focus under Certifications & exams,
specifically, they're divided into categories.
There's an About,
where you can get to the exam policies and the frequently asked questions.
That's particularly important for you to go to.
And then we have a number of cloud platform and infrastructure certifications,
Mobility, Data management, Productivity,
App building.
Under Certification types,
this is where you can get to those credentials that we had talked about.
For IT pros that would be MTA, MTSA, and MCSE.
Let's go to MTA, because that's our scope under consideration,
and while that's loading I'm going to pop open an additional tab and do a
search for exam 98-349 Windows Operating System Fundamentals.
Apologies if I sometimes call it Essentials.
The reason I want to have the exam page open in a separate tab
is so I don't forget to tell you about it.
Back at the Microsoft Learning page, when you go into the,
what did we do, we went down under Certification types,
MTA, it shows that as of this recording we have MTAs in Database,
Developer, and IT Infrastructure, and you can click through to explore them.
And that's all well and good,
but as I said earlier in the slide section of this module,
it can be a little slippery to learn the status about 98-349,
it's difficult to find it on the Microsoft Learning site,
so what I tend to do is, as you saw me do,
do a search for the exam number, 98-349,
and then it brings you to the Learning page.
Now what's cool about the blueprint is that it answers most of your questions.
I receive questions from students every day,
can you tell me what's covered on such and so exam.
Well, of course I'm not going to break my non-disclosure agreement,
or NDA, with Microsoft,
but if you go to the blueprint page for the certification in question,
it'll leave nothing to the imagination.
Here we can see all of the languages that Microsoft has localized the exam in.
There is a schedule link right here.
Now notice that this says Schedule with Certiport.
That's an important distinction.
Most exams use Pearson VUE.
For instance, let me look up a Microsoft Windows Server 2016 exam 70-744,
this is a security exam in the MCSA/MCSE tracks.
I'll select the link, let's load it up.
Okay, notice it just says Schedule exam,
and when you click that,
it's actually going to eventually click out to pearsonvue.
com, which is the official Microsoft partner for scheduling these exams.
And if you've taken previous Microsoft exams, you already know that.
Well I don't actually want to schedule it so I'm going to stop it,
but Certiport is the vendor that Microsoft uses for simulation
exams like the Microsoft Office Specialist test.
So what that should tell you is that in addition to
the typical multiple choice items,
you can expect to see simulation items on your 98-349 test,
ad that underscores the Cert Triangle,
where you're flexing not only your theoretical knowledge of Windows 10,
but your actual hands-on experience.
There's no way around it, you need to demonstrate your competency.
So those are the major touch points there.
The last thing I'll do is come down here,
and on every exam blueprint page,
the most important section is the Skills measured.
And as we saw, there's 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6 objective domains,
and when you expand them they contain specific categories and skills.
You want to make sure before you sit for any Microsoft certification exam,
that you've gone through every one of these line items,
and every element in every line,
and make sure that you understand it and know how to use that technology.
If you come down under Skills measured, Preparation options,
Practice test, Take a Microsoft Official Practice Test for 98-349,
that's going to click out to measureup.
com.
Specifically, Pearson VUE has a subsite called mindhub,
and they partner with measureup to offer certification exams.
Here it is right here.
This gives you that third part of the certification triangle.
You've got the theoretical knowledge,
you've got the hands-on practical experience,
and then by using a legitimate practice exam product like this, this gets you into the mind-frame of taking a computer-based certification test.